have you signed up to take on the toast
roll at your next Toast Masters meeting
but now your meeting's coming up and you
haven't prepared and you're freaking out
and you don't know what to do don't
worry I've got you covered in this video
because I'm going to show you a live
example of myself taking on the toast
roll at my local Toast Masters meeting
and whether you're a brand new
Toastmaster who's taking this roll on
for the first time or if you're a
seasoned vet who has been to Decades of
Toast Masters meetings but you're
looking to elevate your skill I'm sure
this video will provide you with a bit
of value in just a few moments I'm going
to show you that live example from my
Toast Masters meeting of me taking on
the toast roll but before that I want to
encourage you if you are a new
Toastmaster consider signing up for this
role I like to think of the toast role
as an easier version of table topics
because it's the same timeline 1 to 2
minutes but you get to think about what
you're going to talk talk about in fact
you can prepare for the full week or two
weeks leading up to your Toast Masters
meeting and as long as you Loosely
relate what you're talking about to the
theme of the meeting you can talk about
whatever you'd like okay let's jump
right into the live example of me taking
on the toast roll I'm going to watch it
with you and then afterward I'm going to
break down what I did well what I could
have improved upon and I'm going to talk
about three key things you need to keep
in mind when taking on the toast post
rooll all right class listen up this is
your assignment it's due tomorrow it's
very simple I'm going to give you a
blank sheet of paper and your assignment
is to write something on that piece of
paper if you write something you'll get
100% if you don't write anything well of
course you'll fail Madam Toastmaster
fellow toast Masters in person and on
Zoom that was the assignment given to me
by my grade 11 English teacher when I
was in high school and after the bell
rang the students congregated in the
hallway they couldn't believe their luck
we can write anything on the piece of
paper and we'll get 100% the students
began scheming how they were going to
write one single word and submit that as
their assignment he said we could write
whatever we want that'll count
I took the piece of paper home that
evening and I stared at it for a while
and when I began to write I didn't write
one word I wrote a short story which
took up every inch of that piece of
paper it was the best thing I had
written up until that point in my life
because what that grade 11 English
teacher did was not just give me a
homework assignment he gave me
permission to be creative that unlocked
something within myself I discovered my
love for writing which led me to
journalism school which has stuck with
me today it's why I'm wearing a
microphone and filming myself giving a
toast because I still have that passion
for creating the great teachers have
that ability to tap into the potential
within us so with the theme of teachers
today I would ask that everyone stand
with me if you're
able and raise a glass to Great teachers
to Great teachers
all right there we have it so that was
the toast that I did and I think it went
pretty well overall I'll get into some
of the feedback that I received and just
my own personal thoughts as I watch that
back but before that as promised I want
to give you three keys to think about
when you are taking on the toast rule at
your local Toast Masters meeting the
first thing to remember is to keep it
related to the theme of the meeting so I
mentioned earlier in this video this is
like an easier version of table topics
because you can prepare you can choose
what you're talking about you can have
time to think about your answer but you
still should work within the parameters
of the theme of the meeting in the
example that we just watched the theme
was teachers so I kept that very
specific on a teacher who had made an
impact on me you can be a little more
creative a little bit more outside the
box and the great thing about toast is
that you can make them funny you can
make them serious you can make them
emotional you can make them
light-hearted it is up to you the idea
of a toast is to set the tone for the
meeting get everyone ready incorporate
it within your speech and that will kick
off the meeting the second thing to
remember is to practice and those of you
who have watched my videos before know I
talk about practicing so often it's one
of the most important things that we can
do as public speakers but this is the
advantage you have with a to toast
compared to table topics table topics
you're winging it a toast there is no
excuse for winging it you have a whole
whatever the period between your
meetings are one week two weeks a month
to be thinking about what you're going
to talk about and once you've decided on
what your toast will be the content of
your toast that is your opportunity to
practice to sharpen it to embed those
pauses to raise the vocal variety or
lower your voice but practicing is so
incredibly important the third tip and
this is a pro tip for those of you who
are maybe at least mid-range to high
level speakers keep the thing you toast
to concise I see this so often when
people deliver Toast Masters toast they
raise their glass and they say to the
best teachers we've ever had throughout
all of elementary school middle school
and high school or something long winded
like that and then as the fellow Toast
Masters stand up they're trying to
remember to the great teachers we had
throughout Elementary and and middle
school and like it's too long it's too
long of a sentence it feels awkward when
I gave a toast in my video example I
said to Great teachers nobody is going
to forget what that is keep it concise
two or three words Max and that will be
easy to remember for the rest of the
Toast Masters in the meeting so how did
my toast go in my own opinion I received
positive feedback from the general of
valuator and also fellow Toast Masters
but they're always nice in terms of
giving me feedback my own feeling is
overall I was pretty happy with it it
had been a while since I had went to a
Toast Masters meeting and my skills were
Rusty while I was practicing so I was
actually getting quite nervous before I
delivered this because even practicing
in the car on the way to the meeting I
was messing up certain parts but overall
I thought it went pretty well I did like
how I used the creative opening
pretending to be my grade 11 English
teacher I thought that was a good way to
set the tone of course there's always
ways you can make your speeches better
and one of the ways I could have is
understanding where the projector was so
you may have noticed this you may have
been distracted as I was speaking
because the projector behind me was on
my shirt at one point it was almost on
my face and that is my own fault I
should have been aware that that
projector was there and that that could
be distracting for others I also noticed
I was doing kind of a weird thing with
my right hand my left hand was by its
side my right hand had this like Snappy
look to it these are nitpicky things but
they are ways I could have improved this
toast as I mentioned before whether
you're a brand new Toastmaster or a
seasoned Toastmaster who has been in the
program for a long time this is a great
rooll to take on I really encourage you
to take on the toast roll practice for
it let me know how it goes leave a
comment below if you are taking on this
role if this video was helpful let me
know and of course subscribe to the
channel because I will continue to put
out more videos like this to help you
through your Toast Masters Journey but I
want to sincerely thank everyone who sto
took the time to watch this video it
means a lot and I'll catch you on the
next one